Let's create the Video Post Format in this lecture. And in the video post format we're gonna follow a slightly
different approach.
So let's search for "post format video".
And that is go to the index.
So what we're gonna do is we're gonna make the video format exactly like the standard post
format like this one. The only difference will be instead of this image we will display the first video we
find in the post content.
Right?
So we could have done it like the quote and the link and made the users add the just video in the content
and displayed here.
But let's try another thing.
Let's allow the users to write normal post that will have videos embedded in it.
And then if they chose a video post format instead of the featured image we will display the first video
in the post content,
right?
So let's go and create the content-video
file.
And as we mentioned this one will be similar to the normal content. So let's copy the normal content.
And the only difference here will be in the post thumbnail. Instead of the post thumbnail
we need to find the first video in the post content and display it.
And if the post has no videos we will fall back to the post thumbnail,
right?
So let's open PHP tags
at the very start. And let's define a variable called $videos. And let's call a function called get_media
get_media_embedded_in_content().
So this function will take the content of the post and an array of embed types. And it will return an
array of all the embedded content in this post.
Right? So we need the content of the post. So get_the_content(). And we need the types. So a video could be maybe a
"video" tag normal HTML5 VIDEO tag or maybe an "object" tag or an "embed" tag or just an "iframe" like a YouTube
embed or something.
So let's var_dump() this, the output of this function. And let's go and see. And as you can see we have
posts with videos in it.
So let's open this one.
So I've a video here but the function here is returning an empty array.
And that's because as we mentioned in I think the previous section, get_the_content() will get the content without any
filters applied to it.
And as we already know the content passes through a lot of filters and we need these filters in order
to get the final content, right?
So let's define another variable called $content and let's apply filters. And we'll apply "the_content" to get_the_content().
And now the output of this will be the content,
but with all the filters applied, right?
So you might think why we didn't just call the_content() here which outputs the content with all the filters
applied.
And that's because this is an argument to the function and the_content() will echo the output.
We just need the output returned in a variable, right?
So let's pass the content now and let's refresh.
And as you can see we have an array and this post has one video. So array of one video and here also.
Let's ignore the VideoPress.
It's testing a plugin that we're not using. Let's ignore it. We've a YouTube video and a
video from WordPress.tv. So now we have the video in this array.
Let's now instead of the post thumbnail check if we have a video, display the video otherwise display
the post thumbnail.
So in addition to checking that we have a post thumbnail
let's also check that the video is empty.
So we don't have any videos. So if the video is empty we'll also display the post thumbnail.
And let's write here another if condition. And this condition will deal with being in the archive page.
So not single.
So if you in the loop not in the single page and the video array is not empty then we need to output the video.
So let's close the if condition. And let's add a class called,
DIV sorry, with a class "c-post__video".
And inside of it we will just echo the video actually
it's called videos.
So let's "echo $videos[0]" which would be the first video in this array.
Right?
Let's see now. And as you can see we have the videos and if we visit a post of them what we need to do is
we need to still display the post thumbnail
if there is one.
Right?
So let's edit this post and add a post thumbnail.
And right now we're not displaying the post thumbnail because in this if condition we're only displaying
the post thumbnail
if there is a post thumbnail and we're also checking if the videos are empty.
Right?
We need to add an "||" here. So if
the videos are empty or if you are in the single.
So "is_single()". In the single page you also need to display the post thumbnail.
So let's go back and as you can see you have the post thumbnail here and the video in the content
and in the loop we will still have the video as expected.
Let's try and remove the video to make sure the post thumbnail will still appear. I don't know how to remove it.
"What kind of guy turns down it to" show up.
So let's remove this whole block and update. And we should now have the post thumbnail because we don't
have any videos in the post.
Let's finally try something. Let's try to add a video using the Gutenberg blocks. The post that we
were editing was created using the classic editor.
So let's try to add a video.
Actually we have a separate block for YouTube videos.
Le's updates and
make sure our post format is also working with Gutenberg.
So great.
One final thing we need to make the video is responsive. Right now as you can see they have a fixed width.
And this width will actually not change when we resize the window.
So I have a class. called,
I think we used that before.
It's called "u-responsive_video". And we need to add this class only if we have an iframe. It makes
iframe videos responsive. Let's var_dump() something here.
We'll call a function called string position or strpos(). And we'll give it our first video.
And an opening IFRAME and let's see what this will do.
And we have an "int(0)", right?
So this function will do?
It will take a string which is the "<iframe" and it will search for a substring in it and return its
position.
So the position of the iframe opening tag is 0 because it is the first thing in the in the iframe.
But if the iframe opening tag is not found this function will return "false".
Right?
So we need to do an if condition that this is not equals "false".
And that's because if it's 0 which we still need to display the class,
right?
And then DIV with a class "u-responsive-
"u-responsive-video".
And let's close the if condition. And then we'll have to repeat this condition again.
To close the DIV, right?
So only if we have an iframe video, we need to add this class and then we echo the iframe in the
videos.
So let's see now and as you can see the video is now responsive. So great. So I think that's it for the video post format.
Let's see the Audio Post Format in the next lecture.